
Java Interview Question
oops:

1)what are the oops concept and how we can achieve in the java
2)what is mean by polymorphism
3)Type of polymorphism and java support which polymorphism
5)which version of jdk you used and what are changes made after jdk1.5(newly added class)
6)which gc (algorithm used in the java) jdk1.7
7)why java not support multiple inheritance
8)what is base class for all object in java
9)what are the method avaibale in the object class
10)what is the jdk,jre,jvm
11)suppose i have made one application in java on windows and now i need to run that application in 
linux box what need to be install for running that application
12)jdk is platfrom independent or not
what is mean by platform independence.


Thread:
what is thread and why to use the thread
in java how we can implement the thread ?and which is better and why?
method available in the thread class
why wait and notify method defined in the object class not in the thread class
use of wait and notify method in the java 
what is daemon thread and how it is different from the normal thread
can we make the running thread as daemon thread if not what exception we will get
how to make the thread as daemon thread
why wait and notify method should called from the synchronization block
which are the concurrent api available in the java? and which are you used in the project and in which case?
how to stop the thread?write the program to stop the thread?
write a program to implement the producer and consumer problem?
when to create the thread using extending the thread class and using implementing the runnable interface?what is marker interface in java?
life cycle of the thread
what is difference betweent start and run method of the thread class
what is difference between sleep and wait method in java
what is callable interface and when to use?
difference between callable and runnable interface
write a program to use the executor api in java(executeservice-worker thread)
use of synchronize keyword in the java ? type of it(method level,block level synchronize)
what is object level synchronized and class level synchronize
what are the best practices to use the wait method 
what is advantages/disadvantage of synchronize keyword?
explain the reentrantLock in the java and use of it?what is advantages of it over the synchronize 
type of reentrant class
what is transient and volatile keywork in the java why they used?
what is other way to implement the transient in the java
write the program to used the serialization/deserialize of employee object.
what is cloning in java?type of cloning?
java by default support which clone type and how?
write the program to implement the deep copy 
what is difference between serializationa and externization in java?which is better to use in which situtaion.
difference between inner class and static inner class
what is interface in the java and when to use the abstract class and interface?
externization interfaced method
can we call the start method of thread twice if not then why?
explain different type of set ,list and map in the java.
what is deadlock write the deadlock code 
how you will avoid the deadlock 
which are tools used for finding the memory leak in java
how do you make the list as serialize 
write the program to keep the unique element in the string and sort based on the ascending order (iunput:mandar,Mandar,Java,data,cat,Cat output:cat,data,Java,mandar)
write the program to implmene the lined list and revevers the linked list
write the program to revevers the list element




Designe patter:
difference between singleton and static class
what is singleton class write the program to implement that.
types of the desing pattern
program to implemen the factory designe pattern.
program to implement the protorype desing pattern
program to implement the facade desing pattern
what is composition,aggregation and association explain with the example


Collection:
what are the collection classes avaiable in the java 
when to use the hashset and linkedhashset
when to use the treeset
for making sorting in the treeset which interface used by the treeset
write program to implement the arraylist?
write program to implement the hashmap?
write program to implement the arraylist?
write program to implement the hashmap with user defined key?
how hashmap work?explain the get and put method of the hashmap(internal implmenation)
what is iterator in the java?
write the program to iterat on the hashmap?
what is fail -fast and fail-safe iterator
if we are iterating on the list and same type deleting the element from the list using list.remove method whether it will 
work or not?if not which exception will get and how to overcome that?
write the program to implement min and max heap ?
write the program to implement dfs and bfs?
write the program to implement stack/queue ?
write the program to find the palindrom string ?
write the program to find the number of palindrom string in given large string?
write the program to detect the loop in the linked list?
difference between compartor and comparable interface in java.
write the program to sort the employee based on sorting using compartor interface.
when to used the compartor and comparable interface
difference between vector and arraylist
difference between hashmap and hashset
difference between weekhashmap and hashmap
implement the priority queue using collection?
what is used of join and fork and in which jdk this feature added  
what is used of equal and hashcode
difference between equal and == when used with object
how string is created in the java different ways of creating the string
what is used of string pool why string is immutable advantage of that?
which is best way to consider the key for hashmap while storing the element
and if you want to stored object as key what is required method to be consider for that?
suppose i need to stored the password in particulare datatype which datatype we should consider for that

SQL:
write the query to get n max salary ?
what is inner join ,outer join 
type of outer join ?
find the name of employee whose name start with a group by department
write cursor for update balance by 100 rupee to each employee after every month


Shell
what is shell?
what is used of awk command
find the linux word in the all file 
write the shell script to print the fibonacci series
how to find the disk space usage/disk free 
what is softlink and hardlink and when to use which 
what is command to find the process using which port
used of sed command
which shell you used?bash/ksh/csh
life cycle of the process


Project:
what is your current project which technology used
what is your role in that.







